---
hide:
  - toc
---

# :octicons-tag-16: v1.2.0
## :scroll: &nbsp; [Documentation as a first class citizen][gh-release]

### With this release, we're getting a makeover!

.. and I'm talkin' a __HUGE__{ .fc-mint } one! "Also" is probably going to be my
favorite word in this release. Not only will this website host our documentation and
changes for each tool, but __also__{ .fc-blue } how-to and help guides as well.

The [Github project][gh]{ .external-link } is __also__{ .fc-blue } now public! That
means if you are savvy enough, you could submit a Pull Request to make the tools even
better!

The command line interface got a bit of a facelift __also__{ .fc-blue }, with plenty of
standardization in common functions, some fancier text output, as well as having the
help text be more descriptive and match formats you've come to expect from other popular
clis.

Oh, and __also__{ .fc-blue } on the list are two new tools called the Archiver and
Extractor!

There's a bunch more small changes and additions __also__{ .fc-blue }, so check them out
below!

??? tip "Try it now &nbsp; :octicons-terminal-24: &nbsp; [Archiver][docs-archiver]{ .internal-link }"
    
    `cs_tools tools archiver`    
    
    *As your platform grows, users will create and use answers and pinboards. Sometimes, users will
    create content for temporary exploratory purpopses and then abandon it for newer pursuits. Archiver
    enables you to identify, tag, export, and remove that potentially abandoned content.*

??? tip "Try it now &nbsp; :octicons-terminal-24: &nbsp; [Extractor][docs-extractor]{ .internal-link }"
   
    `cs_tools tools extractor`

    *It's Search, but on the command line! The premiere use case for this tool is to be able to extract
    data from the TS: BI Server worksheet and then load it into Embrace. ThoughtSpot will only store 6
    months of user activity in this worksheet by default, but loading it into an Embrace-connected CDW
    could extend its lifespan further.*

!!! attention "Some tools have new names!"
    *We don't expect this will happen often. This release puts the CS Tools project out as a public
    resource, and so we're taking the opportunity to have more useful names.* 🙂

    ---

    `created-objects` is now known as `searchable-content`

    `dependency-checker` is now known as `searchable-dependencies`

    `introspect-user-group` is now known as `searchable-user-groups`

    `delete-objects` is now known as `bulk-deleter`

=== ":hammer_and_wrench: &nbsp; Added"
    - this site that you're currently viewing! documentation now has a new home
    - [Archiver][docs-archiver]{ .internal-link } released!
    - [Extractor][docs-extractor]{ .internal-link } released!
    - [Searchable Dependencies][docs-search-deps]{ .internal-link } now supports searching for column and formula dependents
    - [Transfer Ownership][docs-transfer-owner]{ .internal-link } allows you to specify only certain tags or GUIDs[^1] to transfer
    - [Remote TSLoad][docs-rtsload]{ .internal-link } now supports a LOT more tsload-native options
    - a `--temp_dir` option was added to all commands and the configuration file to allow flexibility in saving temporary data
    - a `--verbose` flag was added to all commands and the configuration file to give more in-depth debugging information
    - help/issue submission via [Google Forms][help]

=== ":wrench: &nbsp; Modified"
    - __Created Objects__ is now known as [__Searchable Content__][docs-search-content]
    - __Dependency Checker__ is now known as [__Searchable Dependencies__][docs-search-deps]
    - __Introspect User Group__ is now known as [__Searchable User & Groups__][docs-search-ugs]
    - __Delete Objects__ is now known as [__Bulk Deleter__][docs-bulk_del]
    - tools which offered downloadable TML files will now prefer to offer a SpotApp instead
    - commands which offer an export to file or directory will now specify which in the option's documentation
    - logging now properly propagates past transient status text
    - logging should now capture the command issued along with details about the environment and config-user

=== ":bug: &nbsp; Bugfix"
    - tsload service now __ACTUALLY__ handle reroutes from the ETL server load balancer
    - logging now properly handles special characters
    - a pesky "missing permissions" bug which would fail fantastically for no reason
    - `config modify` no longer reverts flag values (`--disable_ssl`, `--disable_sso`, `--verbose`)

---

```console
(.cs_tools) C:\work\thoughtspot\cs_tools>cstools tools --private

 Usage: cstools tools [--help] <tool>

  Run an installed tool.

  Tools are a collection of different scripts to perform different functions which
  aren't native to the ThoughtSpot or advanced functionality for clients who have a
  well-adopted platform.

Options:
  --version   Show the version and exit.
  -h, --help  Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  archiver                 Manage stale answers and pinboards within your platform.
  bulk-deleter             Bulk delete metadata objects from your ThoughtSpot platform.
  extractor                Extract data from a worksheet, view, or table in your platform.
  rtql                     Enable querying the ThoughtSpot TQL CLI from a remote machine.
  rtsload                  Enable loading files to ThoughtSpot from a remote machine.
  searchable-content       Make ThoughtSpot content searchable in your platform.
  searchable-dependencies  Make Dependencies searchable in your platform.
  searchable-user-groups   Make Users and Groups searchable in your platform.
  security-sharing         Scalably manage your table- and column-level security right in the browser.
  sharding-recommender     Gather data on your existing Falcon tables for sharding.
  transfer-ownership       Transfer ownership of all objects from one user to another.
```

<center>*To [upgrade your environment][docs-upgrade]{ .internal-link } , please download
the latest distribution and run the install script.*</center>

[^1]:
    limited transfer only available if you're on the ThoughtSpot Cloud September or Software 7.0.1 releases or better

[gh]: https://github.com/thoughtspot/cs_tools
[gh-release]: https://github.com/thoughtspot/cs_tools/releases/tag/v1.2.0
[contrib-boonhapus]: https://github.com/boonhapus
[docs-upgrade]: ../tutorial/install.md
[docs-search-content]: ../tools/searchable/README.md
[docs-search-deps]: ../tools/searchable/README.md
[docs-search-ugs]: ../tools/searchable/README.md
[docs-bulk_del]: ../tools/bulk-deleter/README.md
[docs-transfer-owner]: ../tools/user-management/README.md
[docs-rtsload]: ../tools/rtsload/README.md
[docs-archiver]: ../tools/archiver/README.md
[docs-extractor]: ../tools/extractor/README.md
[help]: https://forms.gle/sh6hyBSS2mnrwWCa9
